2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 1/7
Course Syllabus
Please note that the specifics of this Course Syllabus are subject to change. Instructors will notifystudents of any changes and students will be responsible for abiding by them. Even if you print thissyllabus, please check the online version often.
Class Absences
If you missed class, out know that you are going to miss class, please fill out the
IST 220 24SP ClassAbsence Form (https://forms.gle/kvNydoZBZNsydu6J7)
. It will ask you a few basic questions, and theinstructor will receive an email once you fill it out. As noted in the form, you should watch lecture videosin the "Media Gallery" tab in Canvas for any class meetings you miss, and plan on making up anyassignments as soon as possible. If you missed a quiz or another assignment that could only becompleted during class, use the form to indicate during which office hour time you will make up thatassignment.
Description
IST 220 is an introduction to computer networking and telecommunications and their applications ininformation systems. Its objective is to provide you with a basic understanding of the working ofcomputer and telecommunication networks and the ability to apply this knowledge to specificapplications and situations.
While the course is about digital technology and how it works, it is not a training course in particularequipment and/or applications. There will be demonstrations of relevant technologies, but the course isnot equipment-intensive and will not involve special technology needs beyond traditional access tocomputers and the Web.
The course will be almost completely organized around the “top-down” approach of the textbook. In otherwords, we’ll start by learning about the types of messages that applications send each other across thenetwork, and then learn more and more about how those messages are delivered.
Upon completion of this course, you should be able to:
Identify benefits and applications of computer networks.
Recognize key components of data communications and their roles in supporting datacommunications.
Plan, design, and build appropriate wired or wireless networks in given application contexts.
Evaluate and analyze organizational network architecture.
Assess new telecommunications or network technologies and related applications.
We’ll also learn and practice related skills, such as: writing HTML and Python; using the Linux terminal;converting values between binary, decimal, and hexadecimal; and understanding and creating finite-
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 2/7
state machines.
Instructor
Marc Friedenberg
Please contact me, and the entire teaching team, using Microsoft Teams (linked in the Canvassidebar)
Office hours (in E328 Westgate Building)
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12:45-2:45p
Fridays, 12:30-2:30
Instructional Assistant
Olivia Lee
Office hours (in E301 Westgate Building)
Tuesday 1:00p-2:00p
Friday 10:00a-11:00a (via
zoom (https://psu.zoom.us/j/99484044726)
)
Learning Assistants
Junbeom In
Office Hours
When
Where
Tuesday
1:30 PM -2:50 PM
PatteeandPaternolibrary(TBD)
Thursday
1:30 PM -2:50 PM
Please send me a message before coming to my office hour.
TODAY's Office Hour (2024/02/13) - 1:45PM
Library (W-1)
Bakhtiar Reza
Office Hours:
Monday 3pm-4pm
https://psu.zoom.us/j/98200726216?pwd=QVZxT2wrWVp3OW9LanZadXZHRWZzQT09
(https://psu.zoom.us/j/98200726216?pwd=QVZxT2wrWVp3OW9LanZadXZHRWZzQT09)
Password: 368341
Saturday 9am-10am
https://psu.zoom.us/j/98994450082?pwd=N3lIZEZ1SzIwQThTK1pSRm1ZZUExZz09
(https://psu.zoom.us/j/98994450082?pwd=N3lIZEZ1SzIwQThTK1pSRm1ZZUExZz09)
Password: 135419
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 3/7
Michael Catelli
Office Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays, 11am - 12pm (in Reese's Cafe)
Materials
There are no materials to purchase for this course. All necessary materials will be provided.
Assignments and Grading
Your final grade will be based on the following score tracking and letter grade listings:
Score Tracking
Grading Category
Points
Labs and Homework
350pts
(7 x 50pts)
Midterms
200pts
(3 x 100pts; lowest score dropped)
Final Exam
200pts
Quizzes
150pts
(15 x 10pts)
Participation and Attendance
100pts
TOTAL
1000pts
Course Grading Scale
The following are minimum cutoffs for each grade:
92.50% = A
89.50% = A-
86.50% = B+
82.50% = B
79.50% = B-
76.50% = C+
69.50% = C
59.50% = D
less than 59.50% = F
Labs and Homework
The homework assignments and lab assignments are designed to provide an opportunity for students toexplore specific topics in a structured way. Students may work together on homework assignments andlabs, but all of the material that is turned in for grading must be produced individually. For example,students may form study groups and work out homework solutions together on a board or by eachworking separately and sharing what they have learned, but it would not be permissible for one studentto produce a single homework assignment for the group that is then copied and distributed to other
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 4/7
group members. The goal of this policy is to encourage the use of homework as a learning aid.Homework and lab assignments will be posted at least a week before they are due (and usually earlier).
Midterms
Three exams will be given, and the topics covered on each exam will be discussed in class. Theseexams are non-comprehensive, i.e., non-cumulative.
The lowest of the three exam scores will bedropped
. Therefore, no make-up midterm exams will be given, except in cases of widely acceptedreligious observance or other legitimate unavoidable conflicts related to university business. Studentswho must miss an exam for a religious observance or some foreseeable event must inform the instructorat least 14 days before the scheduled exam to make arrangements for taking the exam in advance.Exams must be taken on or before the scheduled exam date. These make-up exams may be in analternative format, such as essay questions.
The tests will primarily consist of multiple-choice, true-false, fill-in-the-blank, and essay questions. I try toget graded tests back to you within one week. You’ll get your score on the multiple-choice, true-false,and fill-in-the-blank questions immediately through Canvas.
For every midterm, as well as the final exam, you will be allowed to use one double-sided 8.5 x 11 sheetof paper with your own handwritten notes (write as small as you want!). You won't be allowed to refer toany other resources during the exam.
Final exam
The final exam will be comprehensive, and everything covered during the semester is fair game.
Quizzes
We will have 15 quizzes in class throughout the semester, each of which is worth 10 points. Some ofthese quizzes will be taken during class, and others will be taken on your own time. These are muchsmaller in scope than the exams, and tied to one or two class sessions' worth of material. Note that,unlike the exams,
the use of a handwritten note sheet is not allowed while taking a quiz
.
Participation and Attendance
Participation and attendance will be evaluated based on periodic participation exercises. I'll be quiteflexible with what "attendance" means in this unusual semester.
Late Work
Assignments are due at the date and time indicated in Canvas. Set notifications if this will help you keeptrack. I understand that life happens. Each student may have up to three late days to be used throughoutthe semester for any lab or homework with no penalty. No more than two late days may be used at onetime for any assignment. Once the three late days have been used, late homework will receive feedback,but will receive a grade of zero.
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 5/7
Course Policies and Expectations
Logging into Canvas
Students are expected to login regularly to check for course updates, announcements, emails,discussions, etc.
Technical Requirements
You will be required to utilize a number of technical systems to accomplish your goals in this course.Most required hardware and software will be made available to you on the computers in the classroomsin the Westgate Building, but
I recommend bringing your own laptop to class
. There will be software forin-class activities as well as projects. It is not the responsibility of the instructor or teaching teammembers to troubleshoot your computer, your home network, or your software problems, and it will beimpossible for us to do so at the last minute before a deadline. Please allow sufficient time to completeand submit an assignment with some “wiggle room” for technical errors or difficulties. Technicaldifficulties that prevent you from submitting an assignment on time will lead to late submission.Depending on the circumstances, this will require using a late day or may mean that you receive a zerofor that assignment.
How to Do Well in This Class
Come to class regularly and participate in class activities
: As stated above, students who come to classand who engage during class do best in the course. Of course things come up. If you miss class, makesure you do the reading for the class that you missed AND discuss it with another student who was inclass and who took good notes. Then at that point, if you still have questions or are confused about atopic, ask those specific questions to the teaching team. We are much more receptive to specificquestions, rather than asking us to fill you in on everything you missed. It is your responsibility to keepup.
Take notes
: Write notes during class. You can use the PowerPoint slides as a framework but add tothem. Some people find it helpful to rewrite their notes after class.
Prepare for class
: Read on the topic before class so you have primed yourself to understand the materialin class. Even if you don’t understand everything the first time you read it and the first time you hear it,you learn through multiple exposure in different ways.
Do the labs and homework
: Sometimes if we are working with someone who is very good at the material,it becomes easy just to let them do the thinking and to mindlessly copy what that person wrote. Try toreally understand and do the homework and labs yourself. We all need help from peers and mentors, butthen go back and try to understand what you didn’t before and see if you can do it on your own.
Use available resources
: We will mention a lot of resources available to you at the College of IST andthe University. These include peer tutoring sessions, LA support, instructor office hours, software
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 6/7
resources, and more. Keep in mind this full arsenal of resources that is available to you and use thesetools as it makes sense to do so.
Academic Integrity
Penn State and the College of Information Sciences and Technology are committed to maintaining
PennState's policy on Academic Integrity (http://senate.psu.edu/policies-and-rules-for-undergraduatestudents/
47-00-48-00-and-49-00-grades/#49-20)
in this and all other courses. We take academic integritymatters seriously and expect you to become a partner to the University/College standards of academicexcellence.
For more information, please review the
College of IST Academic Integrity Resources
(https://ist.psu.edu/students/academic_integrity)
WARNING: In addition to other policies, using any material in any media format - from “answer sites”(such Course Hero, Chegg, and all others) and/or other type of sources - is considered CHEATING andwill not be tolerated. Sanctions range from failure of the assignment or course to dismissal from theUniversity. Contact your instructor with questions related to this topic.
Counseling and Psychological Services
Many students at Penn State face personal challenges or have psychological needs that may interferewith their academic progress, social development, or emotional wellbeing. The university offers a varietyof confidential services to help you through difficult times, including individual and group counseling,crisis intervention, consultations, online chats, and mental health screenings. These services areprovided by staff who welcome all students and embrace a philosophy respectful of clients’ cultural andreligious backgrounds, and sensitive to differences in race, ability, gender identity and sexual orientation.
Counseling and Psychological Services at University Park (CAPS)
(http://studentaffairs.psu.edu/counseling/)
: 814-863-0395
Penn State Crisis Line (24 hours/7 days/week): 877-229-6400
Crisis Text Line (24 hours/7 days/week): Text LIONS to 741741
Educational Equity/Report Bias
Penn State University has adopted a
Protocol for Responding to Bias Motivated Incidents
(http://equity.psu.edu/reportbias/reports/protocol-for-responding-to-bias-motivated-incidents)
that isgrounded in the policy that the “University is committed to creating an educational environment which isfree from intolerance directed toward individuals or groups and strives to create and maintain anenvironment that fosters respect for others." That policy is embedded within an institution traditionallycommitted to
academic freedom (https://guru.psu.edu/policies/OHR/hr64.html)
. Bias motivatedincidents include conduct that is defined in
University Policy AD 91: Discrimination and Harassment,and Related Inappropriate Conduct (https://guru.psu.edu/policies/ad91.html)
. Students, faculty, or
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 7/7
staff who experience or witness a possible bias motivated incident are urged to report the incidentimmediately by doing one of the following:
Submit a report via the
Report Bias webpage (https://guru.psu.edu/policies/ad91.html)
Contact one of the following offices:
University Police Services, University Park: 814-863-1111
Multicultural Resource Center, Diversity Advocate for Students: 814-865-1773
Office of the Vice Provost for Educational Equity: 814-865-5906
Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs: 814-865-0909
Affirmative Action Office: 814-863-0471
Dialing 911 in cases where physical injury has occurred or is imminent