# Course Syllabus

IST 210: Organization of Data

---

Instructor
: Dan Richert
Meeting time:
Tue, Thu
3:05 - 4:20 PM
Classroom:
Leonhard 102
Learning Assistants
:
Bryce Schneider:
Tue, Thu 4:30 PM - 6:00 PM

- Zoom: (
  https://psu.zoom.us/j/6720189820
  (https://psu.zoom.us/j/6720189820)
  )
  Josefina Lara Azocar:
  Monday 4:45 PM - 6:45 PM and Sunday 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM
  on Zoom, buthappy to do them in person! (
  https://psu.zoom.us/j/7742421515 (https://psu.zoom.us/j/7742421515)
  )
  Marisa Vandenberg:
  Tue, Thu 12:00 - 1:00 PM and Friday 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM
- Leonhard 105D
  Learning assistants will have office hours every week, beginning in week 1. These will be announced inclass until a regular schedule is determined.
  Instructor's Office Hours
  :
  Schedule here (https://bit.ly/3sz1YKs)
  or if day/time does not work, email me and we will set up a timeto meet.

---

## Course Description

Introduction to concept of databases including the storage, manipulation, evaluation, and display of dataand related issues.
IST 110 (https://bulletins.psu.edu/search/?P=IST%20110)
is recommended as preparation for
IST 210 (https://bulletins.psu.edu/search/?P=IST%20210)
. IST 210 Organization of Data (3) As the databasemanagement software becomes one of the critical components in modern IT applications and systems, asolid understanding of the fundamental knowledge on the design and management of "data" is requiredfor virtually any IT professionals.
In a business setting, such IT professionals should be able to talk to the clients to
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 2/23
derive right requirements for database applications,
ask the right questions about the nature of their entities and in-between relationships in theirbusiness scenarios
code scripts in SQL to retrieve, update, insert, and delete data from a relational database
analyze and develop an effective and robust design and solution to address business constraints,
IST 210 provides a fundamental understanding of database concepts and practical skills needed toanalyze and implement a well-defined database design. In particular, IST 210 provides an introduction tothe relational model, logical and physical database design, data modeling, and SQL query language.Students will use
MySQL (https://www.mysql.com/)
, an open source SQL relational databasemanagement system that is developed and supported by Oracle.
Upon completion of IST 210, students should be able to understand the implications and futuredirections of databases and database technologies.

---

## Prerequisites

none

---

## Course Objectives

1. Data Modeling – Students will be able to:
   A.
   Describe the concept and practical use of data modeling
   B.
   Model data in business environments by drawing E/R diagrams with unary, binary, or ternaryrelationships and different cardinality and modality
   C.
   Explain the concept of and specify unique keys within entities
   D.
   List the basic differences between different data models (e.g., OO, OR, semi-structured)
2. Relational Model – Students will be able to:
   A.
   Define basic relational database terms such as relation and tuple
   B.
   Explain the concept of and identify primary and foreign keys
   C.
   Explain the concept of and specify referential integrity
3. Logical Database Design – Students will be able to:
   A.
   Understand the concepts of dependencies and redundancies in data
   B.
   Perform the data normalization process through 3NF
   C.
   Design relational databases by converting E/R diagrams into relational tables
   2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
   https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 3/23
4. SQL Query Language – Students will be able to:
   A.
   Describe the purpose and use of SQL
   B.
   Perform the basic operations of databases for DML (insert, delete, update, and select) and DDL(CREATE TABLE, ALTER TABLE, TRUNCATE TABLE and DROP TABLE)
   C.
   Write queries using JOIN operators
   D.
   Manipulate data using a variety of SQL commands such as GROUP BY and built-in aggregatefunctions of AVG, SUM, etc.
   E.
   Understand sub queries and their relationship to JOINs.
   F.
   Intermediate SQL: Describe the functions of TRANSACTON, VIEW, and integrity constraints

---

## Course Texts

The
required
course text is an interactive zyBook:
Introduction to Databases with SQL
by Zyante Inc.(zybooks.com).
In order to subscribe:

1. Sign in or create an account at learn.zybooks.com
2. Enter zyBook code:
   PSUIST210RichertSpring2024
3. Subscribe
   Make sure you choose
   Section 002
   The zyBooks readings and activities are designed to give you a breadth of knowledge around the topicareas, and to provide opportunities for practicing with the different concepts, techniques, and toolscovered in the course.

---

## Technology Requirements

Laptop that meets the
specifications of the College of IST
(https://ist.psu.edu/current/undergraduate/laptop-requirement)
.
Bring your laptop to every class.
You must run MySQL and
MySQL Workbench on your laptop for in-class work, unit quizzes, andthe final exam. (
Instructions for installing MySQL Workbench will be provided during class.)

---

## Grading and Assignments

2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 4/23
IMPORTANT NOTE
: There are graded activities in every class including the first week of classes.
This course is assignment intensive. It is very important that you follow the deadlines and do your labsand assignments every week.
Late Policy:
Late Submissions:
All work
must be completed and turned in before the due date and time
.
Assignments submitted
late are deducted 25% for each 24 hours period after the due dateand time i.e max 75% within 24 hours of the due date and time, max 50% within the next 24hours, and so on.
No late assignments will be accepted after 72 hours without prior approval from theinstructor.
Submission Error Policy: Students have been occasionally known to “accidentally” submit acorrupted or incorrect file in order to buy more time to complete an assignment. Because of this,resubmissions will not be accepted after the assignment due date. After uploading a file toCanvas, make sure that you download your submission from Canvas to verify that you haveuploaded the correct and uncorrupted file.
The sharing of knowledge is strongly encouraged. Working together to understand and learn during thesemester is essential; however,
COPYING (from the Web or peers) assignments is unacceptable.Using Generative AI on course assignments and assessments is strictly forbidden.
T
his ischeating and will be addressed in accordance with the University's Academic Integrity policy (seebelow). If you have any questions about this, please ask!
Your grade in this course will be based on the following activities:
In-class Exercises and Unit Labs
These will progress from beginning activities that provide practice and test your understanding ofcore concepts, to more in-depth individual assignments that will require you to demonstrate yourability to construct complete solutions to increasingly difficult problems. Some in-classdemonstration exercises are pulled from material on LinkedInLearning (i.e.,
Learning MySQLDevelopment by Brad Wheeler).
zyBooks Assignments
zyBook assignments will serve as both an interactive online textbook and as a tool to evaluateyour understanding of the core concepts.
Only the
participation
assignments
are graded; however, we strongly recommend you stillattempt the challenge problems as they help solidify your understanding of the material.
Quizzes -- zyBooks
Short quizzes on zyBooks will occur typically on the first class of the week, at the beginning ofclass.
Quizzes -- Unit
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 5/23
Unit quizzes occur every 2-3 weeks. They are to be completed during class, during the last classof the week.
Project
This will occur during the last several weeks of the course.
Final -- cumulative; sometime during finals week.
Group Work
Grading will be based on the assignment for the work submitted. Individuals can have their gradeadjusted lower from the team grade based upon the performance of the members in the group.Submitted work should include the names of the members who contributed to the submission. If themember did not contribute, then please leave their name off the work submitted. If the member did notfully complete the work they said they would do or missed a team deadline, the team can submit a %(percentage) of what the person did for their grade to be adjusted.

---

## Attendance

Attendance and participation are critical components of the course. Attendance is taken using dailyquizzes in the Canvas LMS.
The following table defines the attendance policy for the course:
Up to 4 missed classes
No grade deduction
5-6 missed classes
Minus one grade fraction (eg A- becomes a B+)
7-8 missed classes
Minus one full grade (eg A- becomes a B-)
9-10 missed classes
Minus two full grades (eg A- becomes a C-)
More than 10 missed classes
Fail
Allowed absences do not excuse you from quizzes and other assessed in-class activities.
There are nounit make-ups, but your single lowest quiz, lab, and in-class activity score (one of each) will be dropped.For weekly 5 pt. quizzes, your lowest grade will be dropped.
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 6/23
Arriving late after attendance has been completed counts as a missed class.
If you have a reasonable expectation that you will have more than 4 excused absences during thesemester (e.g., due to recognized Penn State activities like sanctioned sports events or club meetings,religious holidays, or any other planned excused absences),
you must put this in writing to theinstructor during the first week of classes and be prepared to discuss this with your instructor.
Otherwise, you will be expected to adhere to the above attendance policy. A large number of excusedabsences will not necessarily be permitted. To learn programming typically requires more than the usualamount of focus and intensity. If you have activities going on that will interfere with this, you will need totake this course during a semester when you are not so distracted.

---

## Grading Categories with Weights

The following table shows the weighting of each activity on your grade:
Category
Percentage
Unit Quizzes
35%
Unit Labs
10%
zyBooksQuizzes
5%
Zybooks
10%
In classExercises
10%
Project
10%
Final
20%
Total
100%

---

## Course Grading Scale

The following are the minimum cutoffs for each grade.
NOTE: I do not round
to calculate your finalgrade.
93.00% = A
90.00% = A-
87.00% = B+
83.00% = B
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 7/23
80.00% = B-
77.00% = C+
70.00% = C
60.00% = D
less than 60.00% = F
Please refer to the University Grading Policy for Undergraduate Courses for additional information aboutUniversity grading policies.
If you are prevented from completing this course for reasons beyond your control, you have the option ofrequesting a deferred grade from your instructor. For more information, please see "Deferred Grades" onthe Student Policies Web Site.

---

COURSE CONDUCT
Classes will start
on time
and end as scheduled.
You should attend each class and
actively participate
in the class activities and discussions.
Attendance
will be tracked using the Canvas LMS. See table above for potential grade deductions.
You must notify a grader
before class
if you are going to miss class
for any reason
.
Students who participate in University-sanctioned events (such as athletics) must make priorarrangements and give ample notice.
Engaged learning:
Expect to be engaged with
this course
during class.
Unless you are working ona course activity that explicitly requires that you use your laptop, it should be closed.
Surfingthe web, e-mail, and on-line chat are some of the activities that are generally considered NOT relatedto the course. If spurious in-class computer use becomes a problem, I reserve the right to implementchanges to the syllabus and grading schema to induce compliance.
Out-of-class workload: For every hour of class time, be prepared to budget about 3 hours ofout-of-class time
. This estimate is a guide; the time which you actually need will vary by topic andassignment. For example, if the material is new to you or difficult to comprehend, it will require moreof your time.
