# Course Syllabus

Please note that the specifics of this Course Syllabus are subject to change. Instructors will notifystudents of any changes and students will be responsible for abiding by them. Even if you print thissyllabus, please check the online version often.

## Class Absences

If you missed class, out know that you are going to miss class, please fill out the
IST 220 24SP ClassAbsence Form (https://forms.gle/kvNydoZBZNsydu6J7)
. It will ask you a few basic questions, and theinstructor will receive an email once you fill it out. As noted in the form, you should watch lecture videosin the "Media Gallery" tab in Canvas for any class meetings you miss, and plan on making up anyassignments as soon as possible. If you missed a quiz or another assignment that could only becompleted during class, use the form to indicate during which office hour time you will make up thatassignment.

## Description

IST 220 is an introduction to computer networking and telecommunications and their applications ininformation systems. Its objective is to provide you with a basic understanding of the working ofcomputer and telecommunication networks and the ability to apply this knowledge to specificapplications and situations.
While the course is about digital technology and how it works, it is not a training course in particularequipment and/or applications. There will be demonstrations of relevant technologies, but the course isnot equipment-intensive and will not involve special technology needs beyond traditional access tocomputers and the Web.
The course will be almost completely organized around the “top-down” approach of the textbook. In otherwords, we’ll start by learning about the types of messages that applications send each other across thenetwork, and then learn more and more about how those messages are delivered.
Upon completion of this course, you should be able to:
Identify benefits and applications of computer networks.
Recognize key components of data communications and their roles in supporting datacommunications.
Plan, design, and build appropriate wired or wireless networks in given application contexts.
Evaluate and analyze organizational network architecture.
Assess new telecommunications or network technologies and related applications.
We’ll also learn and practice related skills, such as: writing HTML and Python; using the Linux terminal;converting values between binary, decimal, and hexadecimal; and understanding and creating finite-
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 2/7
state machines.

## Instructor

Marc Friedenberg
Please contact me, and the entire teaching team, using Microsoft Teams (linked in the Canvassidebar)
Office hours (in E328 Westgate Building)
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 12:45-2:45p
Fridays, 12:30-2:30
Instructional Assistant
Olivia Lee
Office hours (in E301 Westgate Building)
Tuesday 1:00p-2:00p
Friday 10:00a-11:00a (via
zoom (https://psu.zoom.us/j/99484044726)
)

## Learning Assistants

Junbeom In
Office Hours
When
Where
Tuesday
1:30 PM -2:50 PM
PatteeandPaternolibrary(TBD)
Thursday
1:30 PM -2:50 PM
Please send me a message before coming to my office hour.
TODAY's Office Hour (2024/02/13) - 1:45PM
Library (W-1)
Bakhtiar Reza
Office Hours:
Monday 3pm-4pm
https://psu.zoom.us/j/98200726216?pwd=QVZxT2wrWVp3OW9LanZadXZHRWZzQT09
(https://psu.zoom.us/j/98200726216?pwd=QVZxT2wrWVp3OW9LanZadXZHRWZzQT09)
Password: 368341
Saturday 9am-10am
https://psu.zoom.us/j/98994450082?pwd=N3lIZEZ1SzIwQThTK1pSRm1ZZUExZz09
(https://psu.zoom.us/j/98994450082?pwd=N3lIZEZ1SzIwQThTK1pSRm1ZZUExZz09)
Password: 135419
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 3/7
Michael Catelli
Office Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays, 11am - 12pm (in Reese's Cafe)

## Materials

There are no materials to purchase for this course. All necessary materials will be provided.

## Assignments and Grading

Your final grade will be based on the following score tracking and letter grade listings:
Score Tracking
Grading Category
Points
Labs and Homework
350pts
(7 x 50pts)
Midterms
200pts
(3 x 100pts; lowest score dropped)
Final Exam
200pts
Quizzes
150pts
(15 x 10pts)
Participation and Attendance
100pts
TOTAL
1000pts

## Course Grading Scale

The following are minimum cutoffs for each grade:
92.50% = A
89.50% = A-
86.50% = B+
82.50% = B
79.50% = B-
76.50% = C+
69.50% = C
59.50% = D
less than 59.50% = F

## Labs and Homework

The homework assignments and lab assignments are designed to provide an opportunity for students toexplore specific topics in a structured way. Students may work together on homework assignments andlabs, but all of the material that is turned in for grading must be produced individually. For example,students may form study groups and work out homework solutions together on a board or by eachworking separately and sharing what they have learned, but it would not be permissible for one studentto produce a single homework assignment for the group that is then copied and distributed to other
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 4/7
group members. The goal of this policy is to encourage the use of homework as a learning aid.Homework and lab assignments will be posted at least a week before they are due (and usually earlier).

## Midterms

Three exams will be given, and the topics covered on each exam will be discussed in class. Theseexams are non-comprehensive, i.e., non-cumulative.
The lowest of the three exam scores will bedropped
. Therefore, no make-up midterm exams will be given, except in cases of widely acceptedreligious observance or other legitimate unavoidable conflicts related to university business. Studentswho must miss an exam for a religious observance or some foreseeable event must inform the instructorat least 14 days before the scheduled exam to make arrangements for taking the exam in advance.Exams must be taken on or before the scheduled exam date. These make-up exams may be in analternative format, such as essay questions.
The tests will primarily consist of multiple-choice, true-false, fill-in-the-blank, and essay questions. I try toget graded tests back to you within one week. You’ll get your score on the multiple-choice, true-false,and fill-in-the-blank questions immediately through Canvas.
For every midterm, as well as the final exam, you will be allowed to use one double-sided 8.5 x 11 sheetof paper with your own handwritten notes (write as small as you want!). You won't be allowed to refer toany other resources during the exam.
Final exam
The final exam will be comprehensive, and everything covered during the semester is fair game.

## Quizzes

We will have 15 quizzes in class throughout the semester, each of which is worth 10 points. Some ofthese quizzes will be taken during class, and others will be taken on your own time. These are muchsmaller in scope than the exams, and tied to one or two class sessions' worth of material. Note that,unlike the exams,
the use of a handwritten note sheet is not allowed while taking a quiz
.

## Participation and Attendance

Participation and attendance will be evaluated based on periodic participation exercises. I'll be quiteflexible with what "attendance" means in this unusual semester.

## Late Work

Assignments are due at the date and time indicated in Canvas. Set notifications if this will help you keeptrack. I understand that life happens. Each student may have up to three late days to be used throughoutthe semester for any lab or homework with no penalty. No more than two late days may be used at onetime for any assignment. Once the three late days have been used, late homework will receive feedback,but will receive a grade of zero.
2/14/24, 2:24 PM Syllabus for IST 220, Section 001: Netwk and Telecom (22411--UP---P-IST-----220-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312095/assignments/syllabus 5/7
Course Policies and Expectations

## Logging into Canvas

Students are expected to login regularly to check for course updates, announcements, emails,discussions, etc.
Technical Requirements
You will be required to utilize a number of technical systems to accomplish your goals in this course.Most required hardware and software will be made available to you on the computers in the classroomsin the Westgate Building, but
I recommend bringing your own laptop to class
. There will be software forin-class activities as well as projects. It is not the responsibility of the instructor or teaching teammembers to troubleshoot your computer, your home network, or your software problems, and it will beimpossible for us to do so at the last minute before a deadline. Please allow sufficient time to completeand submit an assignment with some “wiggle room” for technical errors or difficulties. Technicaldifficulties that prevent you from submitting an assignment on time will lead to late submission.Depending on the circumstances, this will require using a late day or may mean that you receive a zerofor that assignment.
