# Course Syllabus

Jump to Today
IST 411: Distributed-Object Computing
Section 1
Spring 2024

---

## Instructor

: Dr. Jeff Rimland (jrimland@ist.psu.edu)
Course Info:
Meeting time:
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday @
1:25 pm - 2:15 pm
Meeting Location
: E206 Westgate Building
Learning Assistants:
Adam Watson (acw5549@psu.edu)
Riya Thokala (rkt5297@psu.edu)

---

## Office Hours

The Learning Assistants and I are available to meet with you in-person or via Zoom. Office hours arescheduled by appointment. Just reach out to us via email or Canvas message with a range of times thatyou are available. We are happy to meet with you, so please take advantage of this resource!

---

## Course Description

This course presents the fundamental concepts of distributed-object computing, including client/servercomputing which is an important platform for real-world computing systems. The course focuses ondesign, development, and deployment of distributed systems. Students will also consider issues ofmanaging distributed systems and the relationships between organizational processes and information-system architectures. IST 411 is an elective course for the Baccalaureate degree program in InformationSciences and Technology. Students completing the Systems Development Option may take this courseto fulfill option requirements.

---

## Prerequisites

2/2/24, 10:49 AM Syllabus for IST 411, Section 001: Dist-Obj Comp (22411--UP---P-IST-----411-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312014/assignments/syllabus 2/9
IST 311, completed with a grade of "C" or better

---

## Objectives

Upon successful completion of IST 411, students will be understand the core concepts and proficientlyimplement code related to the following areas:
The fundamentals of networking in Java. This includes the manner in which services are addressedon a network (IP Addresses and Ports), the key concepts for designing systems and implementingapplications that are distributed across multiple computers on a network, and the Java mechanismsthat provide this functionality.
The fundamentals of the JavaScript programming language. JavaScript is the only programminglanguage that runs natively in every web browser. It is critical for enabling real-time updates of webpages, and is now being used to develop server-side and database applications.
Various network architectures including client-server, as well as the various types of middleware andprotocols (such as HTTP) that supports these architectures.
Model-View-Controller (MVC) architectural pattern (including its usage in simple Java applications aswell as web frameworks), and the Representational State Transfer (REST) design pattern.
Creating web services and web applications using a variety of technologies including the latest Javaand JavaScript web frameworks.

---

## Materials

All materials for this course are freely available in online form via the University Libraries. Print versionsare also available for purchase via Amazon and other online retailers if this is your preference, but Irecommend accessing them for free via the links below:
Reese, R. M. (2015).
Learning Network Programming with Java
(https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/pensu/detail.action?docID=4191344)
ISBN 978-1785882562
Purushothaman, J. (2015).
RESTful Java Web Services
(https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/pensu/detail.action?docID=4191254)
(2nd ed.) ISBN 978-178439637
Note that additional (free) resources will be provided over the course of the semester.

---

## Installing software on your computer

Since this course introduces various server-side technologies, frameworks, and languages that are nottypically covered in most IST/Penn State courses, you will need to have the ability to install software on acomputer. If you don't have a suitable computer that can be used for these purposes, I'll arrange for a
2/2/24, 10:49 AM Syllabus for IST 411, Section 001: Dist-Obj Comp (22411--UP---P-IST-----411-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312014/assignments/syllabus 3/9
Virtual Machine (VM) or other suitable alternative to be available to you. Please let me know ASAP ifyou'll need this accommodation.
If you don't already have it on your computer, I suggest installing VSCode, which I will be using for allcoding demonstrations:
https://code.visualstudio.com/ (https://code.visualstudio.com/)

---

## Grading and Assignments

This course is assignment intensive. Completing all assignments in a timely manner is a strong indicatorof success in this course.
Late Policy: Assignments submitted up to 48 hours late will receive a 25% grade deduction. Nolate assignments will be accepted after 48 hours without prior approval from the instructor.
Submission Error Policy: Students have been occasionally known to “accidentally” submit acorrupted or incorrect file in order to buy more time to complete an assignment. Because of this,resubmissions will not be accepted after the assignment due date. After uploading a file toCanvas, make sure that you download your submission from Canvas to verify that you haveuploaded the correct and uncorrupted file.
I understand that we all make mistakes and have off days. In order to accommodate this, your lowestassignment grade of the semester will be automatically dropped in Canvas. This applies to your lowestgrade among all

## Individual Assignments and Partner Labs

. It will not apply to activities such asquizzes or status check-ins.
If you feel that an error has occurred in the grading of an assignment or quiz, you must contactme to request a re-evaluation of your submission within 10 days of receiving your grade.
The sharing of knowledge is strongly encouraged. Working together to understand and learn during thesemester is essential; however, COPYING (from the Web or peers) assignments or program code isunacceptable. This is cheating and will be addressed in accordance with the University AcademicIntegrity policy (see below).
The use of ChatGPT or other AI-based assistance on yourassignments is strictly prohibited in accordance with University policy.
If you have any questionsabout this, please ask!
There will be individual and partner assignments.
All assignments must be submitted by eachstudent unless otherwise stated in the assignment.
Your grade in this course will be based on the following activities:
2/2/24, 10:49 AM Syllabus for IST 411, Section 001: Dist-Obj Comp (22411--UP---P-IST-----411-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312014/assignments/syllabus 4/9

## Partner Labs

These activities will encourage active learning and sharing of knowledge as your work throughvarious assigned challenges with an (optional) partner.
Individual Assignments
These assignments will test your understanding of core concepts via in-depth individualchallenges that will require you to demonstrate your ability to construct complete solutions toincreasingly difficult problems

## Quizzes

Quizzes will generally occur every 3-4 weeks.
Status check-ins
Some weeks will include a Status check-in for you to complete in Canvas. This is a place to leaveany comments regarding what you found useful, what you struggled with, or anything else youwould like me to know. Status check-ins will typically be worth 3 points, and they are the easiestpoints that you will earn all semester!
Other assignments
This course may also include other assignment categories including work in larger groups,"participation" activities, extra credit activities, and whatever else we come up with!

---

## Attendance

While I do not track or grade your attendance, you are strongly encouraged to attend all class sessionsunless you are ill. You are responsible for any announcements, activities, or quizzes that you may miss -- so make sure to talk to a trusted student, a learning assistant, or your instructor if you miss class.

---

## Important Note:

If you are ill and unable to complete a quiz or assignment by the specified due date, please contact meas soon as possible in order to receive an accommodation. Contact me before the assignment due datewhen possible.

## Tentative Schedule of Topics (subject to change):

Week Topics
1
Course Introduction
Foundations of Network Programming and Java Networking Capabilities
2/2/24, 10:49 AM Syllabus for IST 411, Section 001: Dist-Obj Comp (22411--UP---P-IST-----411-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312014/assignments/syllabus 5/9
2
Client/Server programming
3
Leveraging network connections
4
APIs and JSON in Java
5
Introducing JavaScript
6
APIs and JSON in JavaScript
7
More advanced JavaScript and API access
8
Using multiple APIs together
9
REST architecture
10
Introducing Node.js
11
More Node.js and server-side JavaScript
12
The full-stack JavaScript Application
13
Introducing Express.js and NPM
14
Full-stack JS with Express.js
15
Vue.js

## The following table shows an approximate weighting of each activity on your grade:

Activity
Valued at (%of the finalgrade)
Partner Labsand IndividualAssignments
75%
Quizzes
10%
Group and"Participation"activities
10%
Status check-ins
5%
Total
100%
The table above serves as a rough guideline only. Other graded assignments (e.g. small group projects,etc.) or modification to the number of a certain type of assignment (e.g. fewer quizzes or Labs) mayresult in significant variations from these grade weights.

## Letter grades will be assigned to the above percentages as follows:

A: 100-93
A-: 92-90
B+ 89-86
B: 85-82
B-: 81-79
C+: 78-76
C: 75-70
D: 69-60
F: 60-0
Note that I round up on .5 or higher (e.g. 89.5 rounds up to an A-)
Please refer to the University Grading Policy for Undergraduate Courses for additional information aboutUniversity grading policies.
If you are prevented from completing this course for reasons beyond your control, you have the option ofrequesting a deferred grade from your instructor. For more information, please see "Deferred Grades" on
2/2/24, 10:49 AM Syllabus for IST 411, Section 001: Dist-Obj Comp (22411--UP---P-IST-----411-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312014/assignments/syllabus 7/9
the Student Policies Web Site.

---
