# Course Syllabus

Jump to Today
Please note that the specifics of this Course Syllabus are subject to change. Instructors will notifystudents of any changes and students will be responsible for abiding them. Even if you print thissyllabus, please check the online version often.

## Description

IST 412: The Engineering of Complex Software Systems (3 credits per semester/maximum of 3) -
Introduction to the engineering of complex software systems including software system specification,design and implementation, integration and test, and evolution.
This course presents the fundamental concepts of the engineering of complex software systems,including iterative and agile development strategies. The course gives students insight into the fullsoftware development cycle, including design, implementation, test and quality assurance, deployment,maintenance, and project estimation and management.
IST 412
is an elective course for theBaccalaureate degree program in Information Sciences and Technology. Students completing theSystems Development Option may take this course to fulfill option requirements. Upon completion of thiscourse, students will have a broad understanding of the fundamental concepts of complex systemsoftware engineering and be able to apply these concepts to managing and developing a complexsoftware project over the full software development cycle.

## Prerequisites

IST 311 with a C or better

## Objectives

At the conclusion of this course, students will be able to:
Understand and explain the critical issues in complex software development.
Understand, explain, and use software development lifecycle models including waterfall, spiral, andagile methods.
Elicit software requirements from stakeholders; run a basic user study; specify, validate, and prioritizefunctional, non-functional, and user interaction requirements.
Translate software requirements into an object-oriented system design
Understand and use test-driven development, including JUnit.
Understand and use basic project management techniques to control the software developmentprocess.
Understand and use basic software estimation techniques.
Understand and use basic project risk management techniques.
Understand and use system architecture and design patterns.
Understand and use professional software development practices such as refactoring, softwarecoding styles, design-by-contract, and others.
Understand and use modern software deployment strategies.

## Instructor

Urja Vora (Office Hours: Every Friday in the time-slot of 1:30pm - 2:30pm at my office, E397D inWestgate Building or by appointment)
LA / TA
Yue You (yxy340@psu.edu)
Sarah Ricupero (
skr5576@psu.edu (mailto:skr5576@psu.edu)
)

## Materials

You are responsible for all the readings, even if material is not covered explicitly in a lesson. Takingnotes on the material you are reading and reflecting on both the reading and these notes will help you tounderstand better the issues, concepts, and techniques that are being presented.
We will be using primarily electronic texts.
Course Tools
The course will make use of several different tools including an Integrated Development Environment(IDE), software modeling and design applications, and other online resources.
Specific instructions for specific tools will be posted to the Canvas Unit where related activities anddeliverables appear.
Java Development
You will be using an Integrated Development Environment, preferably Intellij IDEA, for all projectdevelopment work.
To install IntelliJ IDEA use portal of Jet Brains. The installation is describedat
https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/ (https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/)
for eachplatform and includes a bundled java version. While the functionality included in the Community Editionis sufficient to some extent, I recommend that you register an account and claim the free academiclicense for the Ultimate version. Jet Brains has a lot of excellent, professional-quality tools that arepopular among professional developers.
2/2/24, 10:52 AM Syllabus for IST 412, Section 001: Cmplx Soft Sys (22411--UP---P-IST-----412-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312044/assignments/syllabus 3/12
With any source code submission make sure to include a README.txt file detailing any usernames andpasswords required to log in to the app. You generally should not use external libraries but if you domake sure they are included as part of the project. If the project does not build and run you will receive azero for the assignment.
Conceptual Design
You will be using the Unified Modeling Language (UML) for part of your conceptual design. There areseveral software tools available for constructing UML models.
You may choose to use the MS Visio application, which is available through
vLabs
(https://www.up.ist.psu.edu/vlabs)
. The course lessons generally use MS Visio for UML demonstrations
.
You can also install MS Visio on your own computer through the
Penn State Dreamspark program.
(https://www.up.ist.psu.edu/dreamspark/access.php)
An open source and free tool you can use to create your UML diagrams is
ArgoUML (https://argoumltigris-
org.github.io/tigris/argouml/)
.
Finally, you may also choose to use an online tool for creating your UML models. One that has beentested and is recommended for the course is
draw.io (https://www.draw.io/)
.
You can use any UML modeling tool you like as long as it will produce a figure or file that can be insertedinto your MS Word document.

## Assignments & Grading

The course will follow an active, problem-based approach to learning. There is a longer-term groupproject that will provide the opportunity to gain practice with new concepts and skills, and develop anddemonstrate a solid understanding of the course material.

## Course Project:

The main course project will consist of design and development of a complexsoftware system. Participation in the group project involves both individual efforts and groupcollaboration. You will work on the project exercises in groups of four to six. The instructor will assigngroup membership during the first few weeks of the course. The purpose of this project is to give youhands-on, in-depth experience with a wide range of techniques, methods, and tools to help managecomplex software development projects.

## Group Project Performance & Grading

Project deliverables submitted and marked will be assigned a single grade. However, yourindividual grade for the group project components will reflect the results of group peerevaluations that will be performed over the course of the semester.
In extreme cases, students that do not contribute to the group project will be asked to do thework on their own, or with other non-contributors.

## Assignment Grading Criteria

2/2/24, 10:52 AM Syllabus for IST 412, Section 001: Cmplx Soft Sys (22411--UP---P-IST-----412-------001-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312044/assignments/syllabus 4/12
Correctness (e.g. diagrams use correct syntax; programs compile & run)
Completeness (e.g. models reflect the domain problem; programs implement requirements)
Clarity (e.g. diagrams and programs are formatted professionally; both are annotated)

## Course Grading Breakdown of Graded Assignments

Module
Points
Module 01
40
Module 02
60
Module 03
80
Module 04
40
Module 05
50
TOTAL
270

## Course Grading Scale

The following are minimum cutoffs for each grade:
93.00% = A
90.00% = A-
87.00% = B+
83.00% = B
80.00% = B-
77.00% = C+
70.00% = C
60.00% = D
less than 60.00% = F
Course Policies and Expectations

## Late Submissions

- All work must be completed and turned in before the due date and time.
  Assignments submitted late will be marked 5% less for every 24 hours.
  There are no exceptions to the late submission policy.
