2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 1/23
Course Syllabus
Jump to Today
IST 210: Organization of Data
____________________________
Instructor
: Dan Richert
Meeting time:
Tue, Thu
3:05 - 4:20 PM
Classroom:
Leonhard 102
Learning Assistants
:
Bryce Schneider:
Tue, Thu 4:30 PM - 6:00 PM
- Zoom: (
https://psu.zoom.us/j/6720189820
(https://psu.zoom.us/j/6720189820)
)
Josefina Lara Azocar:
Monday 4:45 PM - 6:45 PM and Sunday 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM
on Zoom, buthappy to do them in person! (
https://psu.zoom.us/j/7742421515 (https://psu.zoom.us/j/7742421515)
)
Marisa Vandenberg:
Tue, Thu 12:00 - 1:00 PM and Friday 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM
- Leonhard 105D
Learning assistants will have office hours every week, beginning in week 1. These will be announced inclass until a regular schedule is determined.
Instructor's Office Hours
:
Schedule here (https://bit.ly/3sz1YKs)
or if day/time does not work, email me and we will set up a timeto meet.
________________________________________________________________
Course Description
Introduction to concept of databases including the storage, manipulation, evaluation, and display of dataand related issues.
IST 110 (https://bulletins.psu.edu/search/?P=IST%20110)
is recommended as preparation for
IST 210 (https://bulletins.psu.edu/search/?P=IST%20210)
. IST 210 Organization of Data (3) As the databasemanagement software becomes one of the critical components in modern IT applications and systems, asolid understanding of the fundamental knowledge on the design and management of "data" is requiredfor virtually any IT professionals.
In a business setting, such IT professionals should be able to talk to the clients to
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 2/23
derive right requirements for database applications,
ask the right questions about the nature of their entities and in-between relationships in theirbusiness scenarios
code scripts in SQL to retrieve, update, insert, and delete data from a relational database
analyze and develop an effective and robust design and solution to address business constraints,
IST 210 provides a fundamental understanding of database concepts and practical skills needed toanalyze and implement a well-defined database design. In particular, IST 210 provides an introduction tothe relational model, logical and physical database design, data modeling, and SQL query language.Students will use
MySQL (https://www.mysql.com/)
, an open source SQL relational databasemanagement system that is developed and supported by Oracle.
Upon completion of IST 210, students should be able to understand the implications and futuredirections of databases and database technologies.
________________________________________________________________
Prerequisites
none
________________________________________________________________
Course Objectives
1. Data Modeling – Students will be able to:
A.
Describe the concept and practical use of data modeling
B.
Model data in business environments by drawing E/R diagrams with unary, binary, or ternaryrelationships and different cardinality and modality
C.
Explain the concept of and specify unique keys within entities
D.
List the basic differences between different data models (e.g., OO, OR, semi-structured)
2. Relational Model – Students will be able to:
A.
Define basic relational database terms such as relation and tuple
B.
Explain the concept of and identify primary and foreign keys
C.
Explain the concept of and specify referential integrity
3. Logical Database Design – Students will be able to:
A.
Understand the concepts of dependencies and redundancies in data
B.
Perform the data normalization process through 3NF
C.
Design relational databases by converting E/R diagrams into relational tables
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 3/23
4. SQL Query Language – Students will be able to:
A.
Describe the purpose and use of SQL
B.
Perform the basic operations of databases for DML (insert, delete, update, and select) and DDL(CREATE TABLE, ALTER TABLE, TRUNCATE TABLE and DROP TABLE)
C.
Write queries using JOIN operators
D.
Manipulate data using a variety of SQL commands such as GROUP BY and built-in aggregatefunctions of AVG, SUM, etc.
E.
Understand sub queries and their relationship to JOINs.
F.
Intermediate SQL: Describe the functions of TRANSACTON, VIEW, and integrity constraints
________________________________________________________________
Course Texts
The
required
course text is an interactive zyBook:
Introduction to Databases with SQL
by Zyante Inc.(zybooks.com).
In order to subscribe:
1. Sign in or create an account at learn.zybooks.com
2. Enter zyBook code:
PSUIST210RichertSpring2024
3. Subscribe
Make sure you choose
Section 002
The zyBooks readings and activities are designed to give you a breadth of knowledge around the topicareas, and to provide opportunities for practicing with the different concepts, techniques, and toolscovered in the course.
________________________________________________________________
Technology Requirements
Laptop that meets the
specifications of the College of IST
(https://ist.psu.edu/current/undergraduate/laptop-requirement)
.
Bring your laptop to every class.
You must run MySQL and
MySQL Workbench on your laptop for in-class work, unit quizzes, andthe final exam. (
Instructions for installing MySQL Workbench will be provided during class.)
________________________________________________________________
Grading and Assignments
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 4/23
IMPORTANT NOTE
: There are graded activities in every class including the first week of classes.
This course is assignment intensive. It is very important that you follow the deadlines and do your labsand assignments every week.
Late Policy:
Late Submissions:
All work
must be completed and turned in before the due date and time
.
Assignments submitted
late are deducted 25% for each 24 hours period after the due dateand time i.e max 75% within 24 hours of the due date and time, max 50% within the next 24hours, and so on.
No late assignments will be accepted after 72 hours without prior approval from theinstructor.
Submission Error Policy: Students have been occasionally known to “accidentally” submit acorrupted or incorrect file in order to buy more time to complete an assignment. Because of this,resubmissions will not be accepted after the assignment due date. After uploading a file toCanvas, make sure that you download your submission from Canvas to verify that you haveuploaded the correct and uncorrupted file.
The sharing of knowledge is strongly encouraged. Working together to understand and learn during thesemester is essential; however,
COPYING (from the Web or peers) assignments is unacceptable.Using Generative AI on course assignments and assessments is strictly forbidden.
T
his ischeating and will be addressed in accordance with the University's Academic Integrity policy (seebelow). If you have any questions about this, please ask!
Your grade in this course will be based on the following activities:
In-class Exercises and Unit Labs
These will progress from beginning activities that provide practice and test your understanding ofcore concepts, to more in-depth individual assignments that will require you to demonstrate yourability to construct complete solutions to increasingly difficult problems. Some in-classdemonstration exercises are pulled from material on LinkedInLearning (i.e.,
Learning MySQLDevelopment by Brad Wheeler).
zyBooks Assignments
zyBook assignments will serve as both an interactive online textbook and as a tool to evaluateyour understanding of the core concepts.
Only the
participation
assignments
are graded; however, we strongly recommend you stillattempt the challenge problems as they help solidify your understanding of the material.
Quizzes -- zyBooks
Short quizzes on zyBooks will occur typically on the first class of the week, at the beginning ofclass.
Quizzes -- Unit
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 5/23
Unit quizzes occur every 2-3 weeks. They are to be completed during class, during the last classof the week.
Project
This will occur during the last several weeks of the course.
Final -- cumulative; sometime during finals week.
Group Work
Grading will be based on the assignment for the work submitted. Individuals can have their gradeadjusted lower from the team grade based upon the performance of the members in the group.Submitted work should include the names of the members who contributed to the submission. If themember did not contribute, then please leave their name off the work submitted. If the member did notfully complete the work they said they would do or missed a team deadline, the team can submit a %(percentage) of what the person did for their grade to be adjusted.
_________________________________________________________________________
Attendance
Attendance and participation are critical components of the course. Attendance is taken using dailyquizzes in the Canvas LMS.
The following table defines the attendance policy for the course:
Up to 4 missed classes
No grade deduction
5-6 missed classes
Minus one grade fraction (eg A- becomes a B+)
7-8 missed classes
Minus one full grade (eg A- becomes a B-)
9-10 missed classes
Minus two full grades (eg A- becomes a C-)
More than 10 missed classes
Fail
Allowed absences do not excuse you from quizzes and other assessed in-class activities.
There are nounit make-ups, but your single lowest quiz, lab, and in-class activity score (one of each) will be dropped.For weekly 5 pt. quizzes, your lowest grade will be dropped.
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 6/23
Arriving late after attendance has been completed counts as a missed class.
If you have a reasonable expectation that you will have more than 4 excused absences during thesemester (e.g., due to recognized Penn State activities like sanctioned sports events or club meetings,religious holidays, or any other planned excused absences),
you must put this in writing to theinstructor during the first week of classes and be prepared to discuss this with your instructor.
Otherwise, you will be expected to adhere to the above attendance policy. A large number of excusedabsences will not necessarily be permitted. To learn programming typically requires more than the usualamount of focus and intensity. If you have activities going on that will interfere with this, you will need totake this course during a semester when you are not so distracted.
_______________________________________________________________________
Grading Categories with Weights
The following table shows the weighting of each activity on your grade:
Category
Percentage
Unit Quizzes
35%
Unit Labs
10%
zyBooksQuizzes
5%
Zybooks
10%
In classExercises
10%
Project
10%
Final
20%
Total
100%
_______________________________________________________________________
Course Grading Scale
The following are the minimum cutoffs for each grade.
NOTE: I do not round
to calculate your finalgrade.
93.00% = A
90.00% = A-
87.00% = B+
83.00% = B
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 7/23
80.00% = B-
77.00% = C+
70.00% = C
60.00% = D
less than 60.00% = F
Please refer to the University Grading Policy for Undergraduate Courses for additional information aboutUniversity grading policies.
If you are prevented from completing this course for reasons beyond your control, you have the option ofrequesting a deferred grade from your instructor. For more information, please see "Deferred Grades" onthe Student Policies Web Site.
_______________________________________________________________________
COURSE CONDUCT
Classes will start
on time
and end as scheduled.
You should attend each class and
actively participate
in the class activities and discussions.
Attendance
will be tracked using the Canvas LMS. See table above for potential grade deductions.
You must notify a grader
before class
if you are going to miss class
for any reason
.
Students who participate in University-sanctioned events (such as athletics) must make priorarrangements and give ample notice.
Engaged learning:
Expect to be engaged with
this course
during class.
Unless you are working ona course activity that explicitly requires that you use your laptop, it should be closed.
Surfingthe web, e-mail, and on-line chat are some of the activities that are generally considered NOT relatedto the course. If spurious in-class computer use becomes a problem, I reserve the right to implementchanges to the syllabus and grading schema to induce compliance.
Out-of-class workload: For every hour of class time, be prepared to budget about 3 hours ofout-of-class time
. This estimate is a guide; the time which you actually need will vary by topic andassignment. For example, if the material is new to you or difficult to comprehend, it will require moreof your time.
_______________________________________________________________________
UNIVERSITY and COLLEGE POLICIES
Review current information regarding Penn State policies, including Academic Integrity, DisabilityAccommodations, Military Accommodations, and many others on the
University Policies
(https://policies.psu.edu)
page.
Generative AI Tools NOT PERMITTED
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 8/23
In this course, it is inappropriate to use AI tools in the development of responses, answers, and any codethat may be submitted on homework assignments, lab activities, projects, and examinations. Why? Thiscourse teaches foundational skills. Employers expect that internship and job applicants will be able toanswer questions about—and even solve a problem using—foundational skills, without using AI tools inthe interview. Furthermore, to successfully use AI tools in the
future
, you need to know enough about thesubject matter to discern whether the AI output is correct.
The teaching team will evaluate your work to ensure that it has not been generated by an AI tool.Additionally, I may ask you to explain the submission that you have created. Inability to present anddefend one’s submission may be used as evidence in an Academic Integrity filing.”
Academic Integrity
Review the College of IST's page on
Academic Integrity
(https://ist.psu.edu/current/undergraduate/advising/integrity)
.
Penn State and the College of Information Sciences and Technology are committed to maintainingacademic integrity in this and all other courses. We take academic integrity matters seriously. Byacknowledging the items in this survey, you become a partner to the University/College standards ofacademic excellence.
Academic integrity--scholarship free of fraud and deception--is an important educational objective ofPenn State. Academic dishonesty can lead to a failing grade or in extreme cases - including studentmisconduct - referral to the
Office of Student Conduct (https://studentaffairs.psu.edu/conduct)
.
In cases where academic integrity is questioned,
Penn State's policy on academic integrity
(https://senate.psu.edu/policies-and-rules-for-undergraduate-students/47-00-48-00-and-49-00-grades/#49-20)
requires that the instructor give the student notice of the charge as well as the recommended sanction. Procedures allow the student to accept or contest the charge through discussions with the instructor. If astudent chooses to contest, the case will then be managed by the College of IST Academic IntegrityCommittee and from that time forward; the student will be prohibited from dropping the course. If adisciplinary sanction also is recommended, the case will be referred to the
Office of Student Conduct
(https://studentaffairs.psu.edu/conduct)
.
All Penn State colleges abide by this Penn State policy, but review procedures vary by college whenacademic dishonesty is suspected. Information about Penn State's academic integrity policy and collegereview procedures is included in the information students receive upon enrolling in a course. Additionalinformation can be found on the College of IST website.
Additionally, students are expected to act with civility and personal integrity; respect other students'dignity, rights, and property; and help create and maintain an environment in which all can succeed
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 9/23
through the fruits of their own efforts. An environment of academic integrity is requisite to respect for selfand others, and a civil community.
For additional information on Academic Integrity, including the process and procedure, please go to: ISTAI Resources Page:
https://ist.psu.edu/current/undergraduate/advising/integrity
(https://ist.psu.edu/current/undergraduate/advising/integrity)
HonorLock Proctoring for Unit Quizzes and Exams
This course may require you to take exams using certain proctoring software that uses your computer'swebcam or other technology to monitor and/or record your activity during exams. The proctoringsoftware may be listening to you, monitoring your computer screen, viewing you and your surroundings,recording and storing any and all activity (including visual and audio
recordings)
during the proctoringprocess. By enrolling in this course, you have consented to the use of the proctoring software selectedby your instructor, including but not limited to any audio and/or visual monitoring which may be recorded.You will need to use one of the compatible operating systems which are listed in
Honorlock's MinimumRequirements table (https://honorlock.com/support/)
. Additionally, you will need to use Chrome anddownload the
Honorlock Chrome Extension (https://app.honorlock.com/install/extension)
. You mayalso review
Penn State's statement on privacy in online proctoring
(https://honorlock.psu.edu/privacy/)
. Please contact your instructor with any questions.
Honorlock support is available 24/7/365. If you encounter any technical issues, you may contact themthrough live chat on the
support page (https://honorlock.com/support/)
or within the exam itself. Someadditional guides you should review are the
Student FAQ (https://honorlock.kb.help/honorlockstudent-
faq/)
,
Honorlock Knowledge Base (https://honorlock.kb.help/)
, and
How to Use Honorlock
(https://honorlock.kb.help/how-to-use-honorlock-student/)
.
DISABILITY ACCOMMODATIONS
Penn State welcomes students with disabilities into the University’s educational programs. Every PennState campus has an office for students with disabilities. Student Disability Resources (SDR) websiteprovides
contact information for every Penn State campus (http://equity.psu.edu/sdr/disabilitycoordinator)
(http://equity.psu.edu/sdr/disability-coordinator). For further information, please visit
StudentDisability Resources website (http://equity.psu.edu/sdr/)
(http://equity.psu.edu/sdr/).
In order to receive consideration for reasonable accommodations, you must contact the appropriatedisability services office at the campus where you are officially enrolled, participate in an intake interview,and provide documentation:
See (http://equity.psu.edu/sdr/guidelines)
(http://equity.psu.edu/sdr/guidelines). If the documentation supports your request for reasonableaccommodations, your campus disability services office will provide you with an accommodation letter.Please share this letter with your instructors and discuss the accommodations with them as early aspossible. You must follow this process for every semester that you request accommodations.
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 10/23
Course Summary:
Date
Details
Due
Thu Jan 11, 2024

L01: zyBooks 1.1 – 1.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881993)
due by
3:05pm

L01: Ex. 1.1 ISTravel
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881992)
due by
11:59pm
Sun Jan 14, 2024

Academic IntegrityAcknowledgment for Students
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881975)
due by
11:59pm
COUNSELING AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES
Many students at Penn State face personal challenges or have psychological needs that may interferewith their academic progress, social development, or emotional wellbeing. The university offers a varietyof confidential services to help you through difficult times, including individual and group counseling,crisis intervention, consultations, online chats, and mental health screenings. These services areprovided by staff who welcome all students and embrace a philosophy respectful of clients’ cultural andreligious backgrounds, and sensitive to differences in race, ability, gender identity and sexual orientation.
Counseling and Psychological Services at University Park (CAPS)
(http://studentaffairs.psu.edu/counseling/)
(http://studentaffairs.psu.edu/counseling/): 814-863-0395
Counseling and Psychological Services at
Commonwealth Campuses
(https://senate.psu.edu/faculty/counseling-services-at-commonwealth-campuses/)
(https://senate.psu.edu/faculty/counseling-services-at-commonwealth-campuses/)
Penn State Crisis Line (24 hours/7 days/week): 877-229-6400
Crisis Text Line (24 hours/7 days/week): Text LIONS to 741741
EDUCATIONAL EQUITY/REPORT BIAS STATEMENTS
Penn State takes great pride to foster a diverse and inclusive environment for students, faculty, and staff.Acts of intolerance, discrimination, or harassment due to age, ancestry, color, disability, gender, genderidentity, national origin, race, religious belief, sexual orientation, or veteran status are not tolerated andcan be reported through Educational Equity via the
Report Bias webpage
(http://equity.psu.edu/reportbias/)
(http://equity.psu.edu/reportbias/).
________________________________________________________________
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 11/23
Date
Details
Due
Tue Jan 16, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493176&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L02: zyBooks 2.1 - 2.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882000)
due by
3:05pm

Lab 1 Install MySQL
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882051)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Jan 18, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493177&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L02 zyBooks Quiz 2.1-2.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881984)
due by
3:12pm

L01 zyBooks Quiz 1.1 - 1.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881980)
due by
4:12pm

L02 Ex. 2.4 Create databaseand tables using SQL
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881997)
due by
11:59pm

L02 Ex. 2.5 Import data
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881998)
due by
11:59pm

L02 Ex. 2.2 Create database
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881995)
due by
11:59pm

L02 Ex. 2.3 Create table usingwizard
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881996)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Jan 23, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493178&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L02 Ex. 2.1 Exploring MySQLworkbench.docx
due by
11:59pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 12/23
Date
Details
Due
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881994)

L02 Ex. 2.6 SHOW and USE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881999)
due by
11:59pm

L03 Ex. 3.1 Practice DataImport
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882001)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Jan 25, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493179&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

Units 1 & 2 Quiz Part II SQL(use Canvas)
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881978)
due by
4:20pm

Units 1 & 2 Quiz Part 1 MultipleChoice
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881981)
due by
4:20pm
Fri Jan 26, 2024 
Lab 2 Create database
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882052)
due by
11:59pm
Mon Jan 29, 2024

Units 1 & 2 Quiz Part II SQL(use Canvas)
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881978)
(1 student)
due by
12:15pm

Units 1 & 2 Quiz Part 1 MultipleChoice
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881981)
(1 student)
due by
12:15pm
Tue Jan 30, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493180&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L04: zyBooks 2.6 - 2.8
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882011)
due by
3:05pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 13/23
Date
Details
Due

L04 zyBooks Quiz 2.6-2.8
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881976)
due by
3:12pm

L04 Ex. 4.1 Basics of selectingdata
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882002)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.2 Refine selectqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882003)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.3 Filter results withWHERE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882004)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.4 SELECT using INand LIKE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882005)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.5 Practice SELECTS
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882006)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Feb 1, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493181&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

Units 1 & 2 Quiz Part II SQL(use Canvas)
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881978)
(1 student)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.7 UPDATE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882008)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.8 DELETE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882009)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.9 Practice INSERT,UPDATE, DELETE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882010)
due by
11:59pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 14/23
Date
Details
Due

Units 1 & 2 Quiz Part 1 MultipleChoice
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881981)
(1 student)
due by
11:59pm

L04 Ex. 4.6 INSERT
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882007)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Feb 6, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493182&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L05 zyBooks 2.9 -2 .12
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882016)
due by
3:05pm

L05 zyBooks Quiz 2.9-2.12
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881970)
due by
3:12pm

L05 Ex. 5.1 Brief on DataIntegrity
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882012)
due by
11:59pm

L05 Ex. 5.2 Foreign Keys andReferential Integrity
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882013)
due by
11:59pm

L05 Ex. 5.3 ReferentialIntegrity Constraints examples
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882014)
due by
11:59pm

L05 Ex. 5.4 Create NormalizedMovie Database
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882015)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Feb 8, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493183&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

Unit 3 Quiz Multiple Choice -No HL
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15964535)
due by
3:50pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 15/23
Date
Details
Due

Unit 3 Quiz Multiple Choice
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881974)
due by
4:20pm

Unit 3 Quiz SQL Queries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881971)
due by
4:20pm

Unit 3 Quiz SQL Queries - NoHL
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15964533)
due by
5:05pm
Fri Feb 9, 2024

Lab 3 SELECT INSERTUPDATE DELETE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882053)
due by
11:59pm
Mon Feb 12, 2024

Lab 3 SELECT INSERTUPDATE DELETE
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882053)
(1 student)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Feb 13, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493184&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L06: zyBooks 3.1 - 3.3
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882022)
due by
3:05pm

L06 zyBooks Quiz 3.1-3.3
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881988)
due by
3:12pm

L06 Ex. 6.1 AggregateFunctions
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882017)
due by
11:59pm

L06: Ex. 6.2 PracticeAggregate Functions
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882021)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Feb 15, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493185&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 16/23
Date
Details
Due

L06 Ex. 6.3 Brief: Basics ofJOINs
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882018)
due by
11:59pm

L06 Ex. 6.4 INNER JOIN
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882019)
due by
11:59pm

L06 Ex. 6.5 Practice JOINs withtwo tables
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882020)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Feb 20, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493186&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L07 zyBooks 3.4-3.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882026)
due by
3:05pm

L07 zyBooks Quiz 3.4-3.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881969)
due by
3:12pm

L07 Ex. 7.1 Multiple JOINs
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882023)
due by
11:59pm

L07 Ex. 7.2 OUTER JOINs
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882024)
due by
11:59pm

Lab 4 Create NormalizedDatabase
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882054)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Feb 22, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493187&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L07 Ex. 7.3 Practice JOINs
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882025)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Feb 27, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
3pm
to
4:30pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 17/23
Date
Details
Due
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493188&include_contexts=course_2312016)

L08: zyBooks 3.6-3.7
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882030)
due by
3:05pm

L08 zyBooks Quiz 3.6-3.7
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881979)
due by
3:12pm

L08 Ex. 8.1 Introduction toSubqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882027)
due by
11:59pm

L08 Ex. 8.2 More onSubqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882028)
due by
11:59pm

L08 Ex. 8.3 PracticeSubqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882029)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Feb 29, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493189&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

Unit 4 Quiz Part 1. (nosubqueries)
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881987)
due by
4:20pm

Unit 4 Quiz Part 2. (nosubqueries)
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881968)
due by
4:20pm
Fri Mar 1, 2024 
Lab 5 JOINS
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882055)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Mar 5, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493190&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
Thu Mar 7, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
3pm
to
4:30pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 18/23
Date
Details
Due
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493191&include_contexts=course_2312016)
Tue Mar 12, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493192&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L09 Ex. 9.1 CorrelatedSubqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882032)
due by
11:59pm

L09 Ex. 9.2 Practice CorrelatedSubqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882033)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Mar 14, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493193&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L09 Ex. 9.3 Practice EXISTSoperator
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882034)
due by
11:59pm

L09 Ex. 9.4 More Practice onSubqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882035)
due by
11:59pm
Fri Mar 15, 2024 
Lab 6 - Complex Queries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882056)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Mar 19, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493194&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L10: zyBooks 3.8
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882039)
due by
3:05pm

L10 Ex. 10.1 Create VIEW table
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882036)
due by
11:59pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 19/23
Date
Details
Due

L10 Ex. 10.2 Query VIEW
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882037)
due by
11:59pm

L10 Ex. 10.3 Practice viewsand subqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882038)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Mar 21, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493195&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

Unit 5 Quiz Part I
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881973)
due by
4:20pm

Unit 5 Quiz Part II.
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881986)
due by
4:20pm
Tue Mar 26, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493196&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L11: zyBooks 4.1-4.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882046)
due by
3:05pm

L11 zyBooks Quiz 4.1-4.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881982)
due by
3:12pm

L11 Ex. 11.1 Brief: What areentities, relationships, andattributes?
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882040)
due by
11:59pm

L11 Ex. 11.2 Brief: What isCardinality?
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882041)
due by
11:59pm

L11 Ex. 11.3 ERD modeling
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882042)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Mar 28, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
3pm
to
4:30pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 20/23
Date
Details
Due
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493197&include_contexts=course_2312016)

L11 Ex. 11.4 Create EERD withrelationships
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882043)
due by
11:59pm

L11 Ex. 11.5 Create EERDMyFlix
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882044)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Apr 2, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493198&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

L12 zyBooks 4.10-4.12
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882050)
due by
3:05pm

L12 zyBooks Quiz 4.10-4.12
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881983)
due by
3:12pm

L12 Ex. 12.1 Brief onNormalization Process
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882047)
due by
11:59pm

L12 Ex. 12.2 Normalizationwith example
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882048)
due by
11:59pm

L12 Ex. 12.3 DatabaseNormalization Problem
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882049)
due by
11:59pm
Thu Apr 4, 2024 
IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493199&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm

Unit 6 Quiz Part I
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881989)
due by
4:20pm

Unit 6 Quiz Part II.
due by
4:20pm
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 21/23
Date
Details
Due
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881985)
Tue Apr 9, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493200&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
Thu Apr 11, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493201&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
Fri Apr 12, 2024 
Project Part I
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882067)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Apr 16, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493202&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
Thu Apr 18, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493203&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
Fri Apr 19, 2024 
Project Part II.
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882068)
due by
11:59pm
Tue Apr 23, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493204&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
Thu Apr 25, 2024

IST 210, Section 002: Org Data(22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
(https://psu.instructure.com/calendar?
event_id=4493205&include_contexts=course_2312016)
3pm
to
4:30pm
Mon Apr 29, 2024 
Project Part III.
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882069)
due by
11:59pm

Final Part I. Multiple ChoiceOld
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881972)
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 22/23
Date
Details
Due

Final Part II. SQL
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881977)

Final Part III. Design
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881990)

IST 210 Final Exam
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881991)

L02 zyBooks Quiz 2.1-2.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881984)
(1 student)

L02 zyBooks Quiz 2.1-2.5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15881984)
(1 student)

L09 9.3 More Practice onSubqueries
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882031)

L11 Ex. 11.6 EERD PracticeProblem
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882045)

Part II. Q1
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882057)

Part II. Q2
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882058)

Part II. Q3
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882059)

Part II. Q4
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882060)

Part II. Q5
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882062)

Part II. Q6
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882063)
2/14/24, 3:47 PM Syllabus for IST 210, Section 002: Org Data (22411--UP---P-IST-----210-------002-)
https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/syllabus 23/23
Date
Details
Due

Part II. Q7
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882064)

Part II. Q8
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882065)

Part III. EERD
(https://psu.instructure.com/courses/2312016/assignments/15882066)